# Flow

## "Hello World" Example

The `Execution Flow (fy)` tool enables developers to achieve a high level of code reusability by generating object-oriented Python code using a unique 
syntax that simplifies its construction. Below is a step-by-step guide to creating a simple "Hello World"
Python program using the ___fy___ declarative language syntax.

```py title="flows/hello_world_fy.py" linenums="1"
"""fy
flow HelloWorld -> None:
"""

from base.flow_base import FlowBase


# fy:start <<<===
class HelloWorld_Flow(
    # Base
    FlowBase[None]
):
    def __call__(self) -> None:
        # fy:end <<<===
        print("Hello, World!")
```

Each file containing ___fy___ code must end with the `_fy.py` suffix. The ___fy___ tool relies on this suffix to identify the files it needs to process. In large projects, this approach significantly reduces execution time.

##  Breakdown of Syntax
1. `:::py flow HelloWorld -> None:` 
    - This line declares a new flow, which is essentially a Python class. The name `HelloWorld` is the identifier for this flow.
    - `-> None` specifies the return type of the flow, which in this case is `None.`
2. Code Generation:
    - Everything between `:::py # fy:start` and `:::py # fy:end` is always regenerated.
    - The `FlowBase` import statement is automatically added once at the top of the file. When the ___fy___ tool detects this import in the code, it skips adding it again to avoid disrupting the import order.
    - This generated code includes the class definition, base class inheritance, and the `:::py __call__` method signature.
3. User Input:
    - The only code the user needs to write is the `flow` declaration within the `"""fy block`. After the code is generated by the ___fy___ tool, the user can add their custom code, such as `:::py print("Hello, World!")`, inside the `:::py __call__` method.

This approach streamlines the development process by automating boilerplate code generation while allowing the user to focus on specific logic.

## How to use
Once the `Execution Flow` tool has generated the Python code, you can execute the flow in your Python environment.

```py
flow_instance = HelloWorld_Flow()
flow_instance()
```

If everything was done correctly the expected output should be `Hello world!`.
