# Property in Flow

In the _fy_ syntax, a _property_ is a variable or attribute associated with a flow (similar to a class attributes in Python) that stores data. Properties can be defined in different ways, depending on how the data is intended to be used or modified. For instance, a property can be defined using a constant, which means the value assigned to this property remains fixed throughout the flow's lifecycle.

## Syntax

```py title="Flow using Property" linenums="1" 
"""fy
flow HelloWorld_UsingGreeting -> None:
    property greeting using hello_world
"""

from base.execution_flow_base import ExecutionFlowBase

from hello_world_using_property.property.using_hello_world_fy import (
    Greeting_UsingHelloWorld_PropertyMixin,
)


# fy:start <<<===
class HelloWorld_UsingGreeting_Flow(
    # Property Mixins
    Greeting_UsingHelloWorld_PropertyMixin,
    # Base
    ExecutionFlowBase[None]
):
    def __call__(self) -> None:
        # fy:end <<<===
        print(self._greeting)
```
## Breakdown of Syntax
1. `:::py flow HelloWorld_UsingGreeting -> None:`
    - Declares a new flow named `:::py HelloWorld_UsingGreeting`, which is implemented as a Python class that uses property as a mixin.
    - `:::py -> None` specifies the return type of the flow, which in this case is `:::py None`.
2. `:::py property greeting using hello_world`
    - Declares a property named `:::py greeting` with a constant value or predefined behavior.
3. Code Generation:
    - Everything between `:::py # fy:start` and `:::py # fy:end`, including the import statements, is automatically generated by the `fy` tool.
    - The generated code includes the class definition `:::py HelloWorld_UsingGreeting_Flow`, which incorporates the `:::py Greeting_UsingHelloWorld_PropertyMixin` mixin and the `:::py ExecutionFlowBase` base class. 
    - The `:::py __call__` method prints the value of the _greeting property.
4. User Input:
    - The only code the user needs to write is the `:::py flow` declaration within the `"""fy` block. After generation, the user can add custom logic, such as `:::py print(self._greeting)`.

The `fy` tool automatically generates Python code from this flow definition.

## Summary
In `fy`, defining a property in a flow allows you to encapsulate data as an attribute that can be used within the flow's methods. A property can be set with specific behavior, such as being a constant, ensuring that its value remains consistent throughout the flow's execution. This makes it easy to manage state and logic in a modular and intuitive way.
